.TH EMP 1 "Julio 5 2016" "Lucas Di Cunzolo"
.SH NAME
EMP \- A file packager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emp
.BR [-]
.BR <option>
.BR <ARCHIVE_NAME>
.BR <i/o>
.BR <ARCHIVE_NAME/DIR>
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Emp stores and extracts files from a tape or disk archive in EMP format.
.PP
.SH OPTION LETTERS
.TP
.B -p / --pack
Pack
.TP
.B -r / --repack
Repack
.TP
.B -u / --unpack
Unpack
.TP
.B -a / --unpack-all
Unpack all
.TP
.B -d / --detail
Detail
.TP
.B -l / --list
List
.PP
.SH I/O
.TP
.B -i / --input
Input archives
.TP
.B -o / --output
Output archives
.TP
.B --outputdir
Output dirección
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
EMP returns the following exit codes:
.RS
.IP 0
Normal (no errors or warnings detected).
.IP 1
Some files cannot be open during the execution.
.IP 2
Some files cannot be read during the process.
.IP 3
Some files cannot be write during the process.
.IP 4
Some files cannot be create.
.IP 5
The cursor in the file cannot be set.
.IP 6
An error with the quantity of files ingresed.
.IP 7
Can't find the file/s searched.
.IP 8
An error with the input.
.IP 9
An error with the output.
.IP 10
An error with the quantity of options ingresed.
.IP 11
An error during the unpack of files.
.IP 12
A wrong option.
.IP 13
An error opening a directory.
.IP 14
An error with the format of the file of input.
.IP 15
An error with the name of the file of output.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The version 0 cannot pack directories.
.TP
The version 1 include the packing of directories.
.TP
Only can be selected 9 times the option of no-change the name to a file aready exist. After that, the program ends.
.SH EXAMPLE WITH SHORT OPTIONS
.TP
.B emp -p file1 file2 -o package.emp
adds file1 and file2 from current directory to archive package.emp
.TP
.B emp -u file1 -i package.emp [--outputdir /dir]
unpack file1 from package.emp to the directory dir, if outputdir was not specified, the default directory is the current directory 
.TP
.B emp -r file3 -o package.emp
add file3 to package.emp
.TP
.B emp -a -i package.emp [--outputdir /dir]
unpack all the files from package.emp to directory dir, if outputdir was not specified, the default directory is the current directory
.TP
.B emp -d file1 -i package.emp
show the details of file1 belonging to package.emp
.TP
.B emp -l [name|date|size] -i package.emp
list the files belonging to package.emp by name, date or size
.SH EXAMPLE WITH LONG OPTIONS
.TP
.B emp --package file1 file2 --output package.emp
adds file1 and file2 from current directory to archive package.emp
.TP
.B emp --unpack file1 --input package.emp [--outputdir /dir]
unpack file1 from package.emp to the directory dir, if outputdir was not specified, the default directory is the current directory 
.TP
.B emp --repack file3 --output package.emp
repack file3 to package.emp
.TP
.B emp --unpack-all --input package.emp [--outputdir /dir]
unpack all the files from package.emp to directory dir, if outputdir was not specified, the default directory is the current directory
.TP
.B emp --detail file1 --input package.emp
show the details of file1 belonging to package.emp
.TP
.B emp --list [name|date|size] --input package.emp
list the files belonging to package.emp by name, date or size
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Written for Lenguaje Seminary C by Lucas Di Cunzolo
